# Evaluation Document

Prior to developing MutViz, we examined several different mutation analyzers. We found that these tools typically failed to present mutation results in a comprehensible manner and were often tied to a specific source language or testing framework. We used these shortcomings as our primary evaluation criteria when comparing our project to other tools. We also wanted to provide a level of interaction not seen in other tools to further improve developer ease and productivity while analyzing potentially large amounts of mutation data. As a result, rather than focusing on specific metrics or implementation details, we evaluated our tool using the following usability criteria:
- Will our tool allow mutation data that can be extracted from any testing framework? We show that it can by adjusting an existing tool, [muupi](https://github.com/sainimma/muupi), to output JSON data in the schema we designed.
- Can our tool be adjusted to run on a hosted site? By implementing the tool in React and processing mutation metadata on the frontend, our tool is extremely flexible about where it lives.
- Will our tool allow the user to mark mutants as productive or equivalent? By using React we can implement a level interactivity otherwise unseen in mutation test visualization tools.
- Will our tool allow the user to quickly isolate the information they need about the mutants? By implementing a sortable, searchable table we allow users to explore mutants efficiently. In each mutant view, we show exactly which line is mutated and the lines around it so that the user can quickly understand what the mutation is. We also list the names of the mutant killers as well as the error messages associated with them.
